All right.
In this video, we're going to look at entities and symbols real quick.
So we're going to create a new file called ten Underscore.
And let's just call this entities HTML.
So we're going to put in our boilerplate, let's say, entities.
So the first thing I want to show you is a non breaking space.
I'm going to put a comment here and say non breaking space.
So if I put a paragraph and I say, hello, my name is Brad and I run this in live server or you open
your web page.
So we get just a paragraph that says, Hello, my name is Brad.
Let's say that I wanted to put a bunch of white space.
So where you see no text, it's called white space.
Let's say I wanted to put a bunch of it in between is and Brad.
Like if I go over here and I just put a bunch of spaces like that and I save there's no difference it
doesn't in the browser is not going to see these spaces and render it like that.
If you wanted to do that for some reason and there's not too many cases where you would do this, but
if you did, you could use a non breaking space, which is an HTML entity.
So it's actually going to be ampersand and be SP semicolon.
Remember the in the last video at the end I showed you the copyright entity which was ampersand, copy
semicolon and you can look these up on W three schools.
You can find a list of all the entities, symbols and stuff like that.
But let's go ahead and save this.
And you see how it knocked it over a little bit.
If I go ahead and grab this again and put another one, let's put a couple of them and save.
It'll keep pushing it over.
So if you ever need to push a line over like that, you can use a non breaking space.
So next thing I'm going to show you is how we can use or how we should use angle brackets so greater
than and less than.
Obviously they're used in HTML tags.
But what if we wanted to actually put them on the in the HTML page, let's say greater than and less
than?
So I'll put a paragraph and let's just say Fi, maybe, maybe this is a page that had some math equations
or something.
We'll say five is greater than two.
If we save that, it does actually show up on the page.
But in some browsers it can actually get confused because it looks like the beginning or actually the
end of an HTML tag.
So usually when you do this, if you want to actually put an angle bracket displayed on the page, you
would use the entity ampersand, g, t, semicolon, g t is greater than.
So let's save this and you'll see that it renders the same thing.
If we wanted to do a less than let's actually we'll just copy this down and let's say let's do one is
less than two.
We could use l t.
If I save that, you'll see one is less than two.
There's also numbers for entities as well.
So I'm actually going to copy this down again the greater than and instead of doing GTD, I'm going
to do number 62 and save and notice that it again gives me the greater than.
So the number for less than is actually 60.
So we would do ampersand number sine 60 and save and you'll see it gives us the same thing.
Now in most cases you're going to use the greater than and less than.
But I just wanted to show you that you can actually use the number.
We already saw the copyright, but I'm going to put it in here anyways.
So we're going to do ampersand copy semicolon.
This is the one that I use frequently.
We also have the trademark, so let's do ampersand and this is our G.
And if we save that, you can see it gives not the trademark the little R if we want to do like currency
stuff, dollar signs, pounds, stuff like that.
We can do.
Let's see for.
Well, obviously dollar signs we can use the the actual key but let's say we want to do sense we could
do ampersand sent save and it gives us a little sense sign.
We can also do for working with foreign currencies like pound can do pound, we can do yen, we can
do euro.
Save that.
We get all those different symbols.
We can even do suits like card suits such as spades.
So if I wanted to do Ampersand Spade's semicolon.
There we go.
And of course, we have the other three.
So if we want.
Clubs.
Hearts and Diamonds is actually d i a.
So, I mean, you're probably not going to use these very much, but I did just want to show you guys
that.
Also, if you want to display something in like computer code font, you can use the code tag.
So let's say computer code.
So let's say code, which is a tag and let's say we wanted to display php php code.
Now in PHP, you start your code with this right here.
This is an opening PHP tag and this is a closing PHP tag and you could put like echo string.
Hello.
And I don't expect you to understand any of this, but let's say we want it to display this on the page
and we wanted it to look like code so we would replace this with the entity of less than.
So we'll do ampersand, l t semicolon and then let's replace this with Ampersand G.T. semicolon and
we'll save that.
And now down here notice that it actually looks like code.
So if you wanted to put a code snippet into your page, maybe it was it's a programming site or something
like that.
That's how you would do it.
There's also a tag called KB DX for keyboard.
So if we wanted to put like a paragraph and we were giving instructions to say save the file by pressing
and let's say we were telling them how to save a file so control s we could put a KBD tag and we could
put in c t r l plus we'll do that like that and save and now save the file by pressing control s and
notice the control s is kind of it's in that computer code font.
So it's again, not these these aren't things that you're going to use all the time, but it's something
that is good to know.
And again, if you want to look at all of the different the different entities and symbols available
in HTML, you can go to W three schools.
It's a like I said, it's a great reference site.
All right.
So in the next video, we're going to start to look at HTML five semantic tags.